Hello everyone and welcome to Introduction to Graf's lecture in the graphs section of the course we're
going to learn what a graph is and how to use it.
Also learn how to implement the graph abstract data type using multiple internal representations and
you're also going to see how graphs can be used to solve a wide variety of problems.
So what are graphs graphs are actually a more general structure than trees and we can think of a tree
as a special kind of graphs graphs can be used to represent many real world things such as systems of
roads.
Airline flights that connect from city to city how the Internet is connected from web site to Web site
etc. Once we have a good representation for a problem we can use some standard graph algorithms to solve
otherwise might seem to be a very difficult problem.
So computers can operate well with information presented as a graph in an example graph.
Maybe the course requirements for a computer science major.
So a really simple graph would look maybe something like this where each vertex on this graph is a class
and then you have some edges pointing from vertex to vertex and we'll go over the vocabulary in just
a second.
So we just looked at an example of a graph and now what we want to do is formally define a graph in
its components and will actually already know some of these terms from our discussion of trees earlier
.
First off is a vertex which is also called a node and it's the most fundamental part of a graph.
It can have a name which you will call the key and a vertex may also have additional information and
we'll call this additional information the payload.
You have an edge an edge connects two vertices to show that there's a relationship between.
And it just may be just one way or two way if the edges in a graph are all one way.
We say that the graph is directed graph.
So for example that class prerequisites klap graph that you just saw is actually a directed graph.
Since you must take some classes before others.
So if we go back to it and check it out here we have some classes.
And if you notice all the edges just go from one note or one vertex to another.
There's actually no two way ones here meaning this is a direct hit a graph which makes sense because
you have to take a class before going onto the next one.
You don't go back and forth between classes.
So we talk to nodes and are vertices of vertexes talked about edges.
Now I'll talk about weight.
It just may be weighted to show that there's a cost to go from one vertex to another.
So for example in a graph of roads that connect one city to another the way on the edge might represent
the distance between two cities.
OK now let's discuss a formal definition of a graph and how we can actually write it out.
We could represent a graph by for example.
G g is equal to the E and for the graph G v is a set of vertices and ease a set of edges.
And we'll see this right now in just a second.
Each edge is a tuple lowercase V W where that lowercase VW pair is an element of that larger set of
vertices.
And then you can actually add a third component to the edge tuple to represent a weight and then a subgraph
S is a set of edges lowercase and vertices lowercase v such that lowercase he is a sub part of the set
of edges and lowercase b is a subset of uppercase V set overseas.
So basically what this is just saying in notation form is that lowercase E and lower case v are subsets
of the larger set of vertices and large set of edges which makes sense because it's a subgraph.
So let's go ahead and actually look at a more formal graph and then see how we can write this out.
So here we have an image of a graph.
We have the vertices zero V one of the two.
These three of the four of the five.
Notice how we have the edges pointing from one vertex to another and then we have the weights to them
.
So if we actually look and draw this out for or write this out formally Well see here we have a set
which stands for all the vertices in the graph which goes from the zero of the one to the two acts that
are all the way to be five.
So you can use a set notation for each vertex and then the edges is a set of tuples.
You can see each edge is one vertex then another vertex and then the weight.
So we look at this edge.
It goes from zero to V-1 way to five and you can see how the set notation actually starts to make sense
.
Now a computer will be able to process this now suck about a path path is a simple concept in a graphic
a sequence of vertices that are connected by edges.
And this is how you would formulate the find a path.
Well let's go ahead and see it.
In comparison to that picture we just saw here the path from the three to V1 is a sequence of vertices
.
These three four these are going to be one.
And then it has a set of edges.
Right here these three tuples actually go from v3 to the one we'll see since the edges are basically
a directed graph right there only going one way.
We have to go from the 3 to the 4 to zero to V1 and that means we have 3 edges this one that's way to
7.
This one that's way to 1 and this one that's weighted 5.
Finally we could talk about a cycle a cycle in a directed graph is a path that starts and ends at the
same vertex.
So a graph of no cycles is called a cyclical graph a directed graph of snow cycles is called a directed
acyclic graph or.
And later on we'll see that we can solve several important problems if the problem can be represented
as a DHV or Dagh.
So quick example of what a cycle would look like.
In this case the five to the two to V three to the five this little triangle is a cycle.
Since we started and ended at the same vertex.
All right.
So what do we do in this lecture we solve the definition of a graph is both just informally and formally
we learn about some important graph vocabulary terms.
And up next we're going to learn how to represent and implement a graph.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture